okay it's just about filled with wood
yesterday I made a burn and these are
what you call brands they're they're
wood that just the heat had not gotten
to the center of the wood and they
aren't just made in the charcoal yet no
problem okay now it's time to build the
fire and this is critical the fire is
built on top of the wood and then the
fire burns down and the oxygen it comes
up through the bottom of the barrel it's
quite a different design and what most
people use
kinda windy out today we'll hopefully
can get it going in one match too
it's time to put on the afterburner now
as that fire starts to build up in
intensity the heat rising what night the
gas is coming off the wood and make a
fairly clean burn but you have to have
Drive would use the Sun dry your wood so
you don't make a lot of smoke you'll
also increase your heel of charcoal how
long does it typically take to dry your
wood to drive wood in Pennsylvania
I would like to store it for one year
under cover I have a pile of wood here
by my sawmill this was cut in the summer
we had so much rain it could dry out so
I'm going to have to put it under cover
and here's what's happening the oxygen
for this combustion the oxygen ignites
the hot gases that are being driven off
the wood and create a flaming front that
as the chart as the wood is reduced to
charcoal the flaming front will move
down this barrel and will come out a
little bit later and we'll see probably
where the burn are on this because
that's fresh paint new barrel so I'll be
able to tell you how its reacted and
then to control the amount of oxygen
coming in
we use this plain old dirt these holes
to seal them should the fire be burning
more one way than another the fire
always burns to where the oxygen is
coming in with this wind today the fire
so once the fire gets down to those
outlets I will put the dirt against them
and that will force the fire over to
this side where the oxygen is coming in
so you as the charcoal burner can
control how it gets reacted in beside
the burner and I don't want to stick my
head in there but it's starting real
well
this will take about two hours to burn
down the larger barrels the 55-gallon
drums takes about three hours to do so
let's just let it cook a while and we'll
come back a little bit and see how it's
doing